docs(category-filter): add ux guideline (#1107)
siemens/ix: packages/documentation/docs/controls/_category-filter_styleguide.md

Category filter commonly used to refine the data shown on the current page according to what the user types or selects. It allows for efficient browsing and users can easily switch between different categories.The way the select list looks depends on the browser, but users can customize the dropdown list however they want. 

![Category filter overview](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1799%3A38402&mode=design&t=hgAA8GogE70JbHHy-1)
1. Container 
2. Search icon 
3. Input chip 
4. Clear button  

## Options

- **Categories**:The configuration object fills the dropdown menu for typeahead and quick selection. Each ID in the configuration corresponds to an object containing a label and an array of options for users to choose from. 
- **Disabled**: This state is typically applied when the filter is not applicable to the current context or when certain conditions must be met before the filter can be enabled.  
- **Filter criteria**: represents a set of search criteria used to populate the component. 
- **Hidelcon**: This option allows the icon inside the text input to be hidden. By default, it is set to false. 

> - **Non selectable categories**: In some cases, certain categories cannot be selected to show filters properly with these categories, use an ID-to-label map in the setup to label the filter chips in the input field. 

Author: ```suggestion
- **NonSelectableCategories**: In some cases, certain categories cannot be selected to show filters properly with these categories, use an ID-to-label map in the setup to label the filter chips in the input field. 
```
Again, copy-paste from code page doesn't help the user here

We aligned on using the spelling of the code section and just capitalizing the first letter in the ux guideline (see ix writing conceptboard with rules)

> - **Placeholder**: The placeholder text is displayed in the input field when it's empty, providing guidance or context to users. 

Author: ```suggestion
- **Placeholder**: The placeholder text is displayed in the category filter when it's empty, providing guidance or context to users. 
```

> - **Read only**: When enabled, the filter operates in read-only mode, meaning users cannot modify its settings. 

Author: ```suggestion
- **Readonly**: When enabled, the filter operates in read-only mode, meaning users cannot modify its settings. 
```

> - **Repeat categories**: When the option is enabled (activated), users can select the same category multiple times. If set to false, categories already selected will not be available in the dropdown menu. By default, this option is set to true. 

Author: ```suggestion
- **RepeatCategories**: When the option is set to true, users can select the same category multiple times. If set to false, categories already selected will not be available in the dropdown menu.
```

> - **Suggestions**: A list of strings provided as typeahead suggestions, independent of any specific categories. 

Author: How could these suggestions be defined? Recommendation would be nice

> ## States

Author: ```suggestion

```

> Default, Active, Hover 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ## Behaviour 

Author: ```suggestion
## Behaviour in context
```

> - **Displayed**: Categories or tags are shown in a horizontal row, making it simple for users to see and choose from the available options without needing to scroll up and down. The field automatically adjusts its size as you add more inputs. 

Author: The first three bullets points can be summarized into one: category filter is shown as single line field by default, expands when filters are selected and it runs out of space then showing a scrollbar.

- **Displayed with two rows**: This layout presents all available categories or tags in a vertical list, with each row containing a subset of the categories. By organizing the options into two rows, users can easily view and select from the available choices without needing to vertically scroll through a long list of categories. Additionally, the input field automatically expands as needed. 
- **Displayed with scrollbar**: The available space is not large enough to display all categories or tags in full. However, a scrollbar is provided to help users efficiently navigate through the extensive list of categories, ensuring they can access and select from all options despite the limited space. 

> - **Instant Filtering**: Content is instantly updated as users select or deselect categories. The displayed items dynamically adjust to match the chosen categories. 

Author: This behavior is not out of the box available, is it? I would phrase this more generally that two possible behaviors exist: instant filtering vs. apply button and that the component is equipped to support instant filtering.

> - **Clear All Option**: Users can clear all selected categories with a single action, returning to the unfiltered view. 

Author: The last part probably depends on the page implementation and is not inherent behavior of the component ?

> - **Structuring Information**: Group related items together to facilitate navigation and comprehension. Users can confirm their input with a single click before data filtering occurs. If a user chooses to delete content, the data will be fully displayed again for further filtering. 

Author: Not sure how this relates to our component. If it does, make your point more clear, if not, delete.

> - **Filter Management**: Depending on the filter configuration, users have the option to add a simple filter with custom text to create a personalized category. 

Author: what kind of filter management do you see in this component?

> 

Author: Add topic of using with categories and without (if not already covered above)

> 

Author: ## States
Category filters can take six states: Default, hover, active, disabled, readonly and focused.

## Dos and Don'ts

> Do filter existing categories such as topic, type, date, enabling users to find specific content. 

Author: Dos and don'ts should be about component usage in specific, this ones seems pretty general. Rephrase

Do not use  If the data set or content is relatively small and doesn't require extensive categorization 

> Do not use If the categories or attributes are overly complex or hierarchical, using a category filter may confuse users rather than assist them in finding relevant information. 

Author: simplify phrase

> Do not  use for small screen size with limited screen space, On devices where screen space is limited, implementing a category filter may clutter the interface and make it harder for users to navigate. 

Author: I don't get the point - would it make it easier to use an interface on a small screen if I can actually filter the displayed information?

Author: BTW related patterns section is missing, also bullet points of Dos and Don'ts, check general spelling and voice. It is usually the easiest to just copy from existing descriptions.

The category filter is a component which enhances data navigation and user experience.

We typically use a category filter to efficiently navigate large data sets, allowing users to quickly narrow their search by selecting predefined categories. It's particularly useful in scenarios with complex data. The filter also enhances user experience by providing autocomplete suggestions and customizable filter conditions.

![Category filter overview](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1799%3A38402&mode=design&t=hgAA8GogE70JbHHy-1)
1. Container 
2. Search icon 
3. Input chip 
4. Clear button  

## Options

- **Categories**: These are the predefined groups that users can select to narrow down their search or browsing. The categories are customizable and should be defined based on the specific needs of your application or website.

> - - **Suggestions**: These are potential search terms that appear as users begin to type in the input field. The aim is to assist users by predicting their intended search or category, thereby speeding up the input process and reducing potential errors.

Reviewer: there are 2 minuses at the beginning?

> - **NonSelectableCategories**: This option is useful in scenarios where the user should not be able to select certain categories. This could be due to categories that are irrelevant in the current context, restricted throug user permissions or dependent on other conditions.

Reviewer: as said, please write them nicely rather than technically ("Non-selectable categories")

The category filter is a user interface component that allows users to narrow down a large set of data based on predefined categories. 
As users start typing in the input field, the filter displays matching categories in a dropdown, which can be selected easily with autocomplete. 
Users can also specify a condition, such as equals (=), not equals (!=), bigger (>), smaller(<), or equals "fixed word", to further refine their search. 

> After selecting a category and a condition, users enter the filter term, which can be either suggested via autocomplete or entered as free text. The category filter provides an efficient and user-friendly way to browse and switch between different categories. It's customizable and can be adapted to the specific needs of your application or website.

Reviewer 2: There the confusion starts.. it's a UI element (see comment above) and not a pattern?

> After selecting a category and a condition, users enter the filter term, which can be either suggested via autocomplete or entered as free text. The category filter provides an efficient and user-friendly way to browse and switch between different categories. It's customizable and can be adapted to the specific needs of your application or website.

Reviewer 2: we typically use it....

It allows for efficient browsing and users can easily switch between different categories.

![Category filter overview](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1799%3A38402&mode=design&t=hgAA8GogE70JbHHy-1)
1. Container 
2. Search icon 
3. Input chip 
4. Clear button  

## Options

- **Categories**: These are the predefined groups that users can select to narrow down their search or browsing. The categories are customizable and should be defined based on the specific needs of your application or website.

> - **LabelCategories**: ???

Reviewer: these are the labels (aka the string) shown for the categories

Reviewer: in general, since this is UX focused, you can use a normal writing style here (e.g. instead of LabelCategories -> category labels)

Reviewer 2: i18nLabelCategories.. not relevant for UX

> - - **Suggestions**: These are potential search terms or category names that appear as users begin to type in the input field. The aim is to assist users by predicting their intended search or category, thereby speeding up the input process and reducing potential errors.

Reviewer 3: This description is a little misleading, because the suggestions only work without the use of categories or, let's say, they replace the categories.

- **RepeatCategories**: When the option is enabled (activated), users can select the same category multiple times. If set to false, categories already selected will not be available in the dropdown menu. By default, this option is set to true. 
- **Placeholder**: The placeholder text is displayed in the category filter when it's empty, providing guidance or context to users. 
- **FilterState**: This represents the current state of the filter, including which categories are selected and what search term is entered. It's used to control the behavior of the filter and can be updated dynamically as the user interacts with the filter. 
- **Icon**: The default icon is "search". It can be changed to any other icon by using this property. Changing the icon within the category filter can be beneficial in certain situations to enhance user experience and improve visual communication.

> - **Hidelcon**: It is used to hide the search icon (or any other icon). This could be useful in scenarios where the icon might be redundant or might not fit the overall design of the interface.

Reviewer 2: Why is this option even there? 😆

> - **i18nPlainText**: ???

Reviewer 2: used for plain text search

## Behaviour in context

- **Default**: The category filter is designed to adapt to the user's needs and the context in which it is used. As soon as the user starts typing, the filter begins to apply, narrowing down the available options based on the user's input. This provides a dynamic and responsive user experience.

> - **Filter conditions**: These are the operators that determine how the filter will match the user's input against the available categories. Examples are equals (=), not equals (!=), bigger (>), smaller(<), equals "fixed word". These conditions provide flexibility and precision in filtering, allowing users to find exactly what they're looking for.

Reviewer 2: it's not mentioned in the dev docu.. don't know

> - **Filter conditions**: These are the operators that determine how the filter will match the user's input against the available categories. Examples are equals (=), not equals (!=), bigger (>), smaller(<), equals "fixed word". These conditions provide flexibility and precision in filtering, allowing users to find exactly what they're looking for.

Reviewer 2: ask matthias

> - **Display modes**: The filter also supports various display modes, including single-line, two-line, and scrollable layouts, to accommodate different amounts of data and screen sizes.

Reviewer 2: not described in dev docu.. don't know

> - **Display modes**: The filter also supports various display modes, including single-line, two-line, and scrollable layouts, to accommodate different amounts of data and screen sizes.

Reviewer 2: add info that this is automatically covered by the component

- **Autocomplete**: The autocomplete feature suggests possible matches as the user types, speeding up the input process and reducing potential errors.

> - **Category selection**: The filter's behavior can also be customized with various options. For example, the RepeatCategories option allows users to select the same category multiple times, while the NonSelectableCategories option can be used to prevent certain categories from being selected.

Reviewer 2: category selection behavior can be different (non selectable, multi, single)

- **Without category selection**: The category filter can be used without category selection if the user's input alone is sufficient to filter the data. Examples are if the data is not well-organized into distinct categories or if the categories are too numerous/complex.
- **Visual feedback**: When a category is selected, it is highlighted and a chip is added to the input field. If a user chooses to delete a category, the chip is removed and the data is unfiltered, allowing for further filtering.

## States

> Category filter has six states: Default, hover, active, disable, readonly and focused.

Reviewer 2: disabled
